Add Interfaces chapter (#38)
acend/go-basics-training: content/en/docs/project_structure/_index.md

weight: 300
---

> ## Basics

Reviewer: Maybe add something about `main` and `main.go` here?

Author: Move project structure to seperate PR #40

If we want to create a new project named `myproject` we would do the following steps:

```
mkdir myproject
cd myproject/
go mod init myprojct
```

The module path which is passed to `go mod init` is used to identify the module. It is the root for all the packages in your module.
Usually a name like `myproject` is fine.
If you plan to create a library which will be used by other Go projects, the module path should point to the place where the code can be fetched.
Typically this would be something like:

```
go mod init github.com/myuser/myproject
```

Depending on the purpose of your project your module path should be:

* Application: it can be a simple name like `myproject` or a full name like `github.com/myuser/myproject`
* Libraries: it has to be a full name like `github.com/myuser/myproject`

For the following exmaples we assume that we choose `github.com/myuser/myproject` as our module path.
On running `go mod init` a file `go.mod` gets created. In it we can see the module path of the current package.

* `go.mod`

```
module github.com/myuser/myproject

go 1.17
```

## Packages

> Every directory within your module is package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every directory within your module is a package.
```

All files within the directory belong to the same package and are one compilation unit.
This means that if you have multiple files in a directory they all see the variables, function definitions etc. from each other.

`./main.go`
```golang
package main

func main() {
	fmt.Println(otherFunc())
}

```

`./other.go`
```golang
package main

func otherFunc() string {
	return "hello from otherFunc"
}
```

## Imports

### Standard Library

> To Go standard library does provide usful packages which many programms need. The complete documentatino of the standard library you find on: https://go.dev/pkg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Go standard library provides many useful packages. For more information see the documentation at: https://go.dev/pkg
```

Common packages in the standard library are:

> * `fmt`: Formatted I/O with functions analogous to C's printf and scanf.

Reviewer: Maybe use a direct link to the documentation instead of an inline code block?

Author: done

* `os`:  Operating system functionality (opening files, ...)
* `net/http`: HTTP client and server
* `encoding/json`: Encoding and decoding of JSON

Packages from the standard library you can import in every file without depending on external dependencies.
```golang
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"os"
)

func main() {
	content, err := os.ReadFile("test.txt")
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
		os.Exit(1)
	}
	fmt.Println(content)
}
```

### Packages From Same Project

Assume the module path of your project is `github.com/myuser/myproject`.

> In your project you have a directory `./user` which contains a file `.go`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your project you have a directory `./user` which contains a file `def.go`
```
